[Section 4] RFP
Request for Proposal of the International Competitive Bidding for the Design & Author
s  Supervision Consultant Services
 (Bid No.: KG-2026-01)
February , 2026
Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA)
Office in the Kyrgyz Republic
Article 1.  Definitions
Addendum.  A supplement to the bidding documents.
Variation (Change) Order.  A variation order is a written change in the contract term, other than as specifically provided for in that contract, which authorize an addition, deletion or revision in the work or necessitates any increase or decrease in the cost of contract or the time of completion.
Contractor.  The contractor is any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, joint venture or other entity who has entered into contract with the Employer.
Bid Documents.  The Bid documents are the documents prepared or to be prepared by the Consultant which are necessary to tender the Works.
Construction Contract Documents.  The construction contract documents are the documents which comprise the construction works agreement signed by the Employer and the Contractor.
Construction Manager (CM). The Construction Manager means an entity(or an Engineer) which shall manage the Project through all stages as a representative of the Employer (Located in Korea, partnered with KOICA HQ).
Article 2.  Objectives 
The objectives of this local consultant services and the delegation of the CM to the local consultants are:
To ensure that the works are carried out in a timely manner and that the funds are disbursed as planned with no delay.
To assist the Employer to prepare these works to tender readiness state;
To review the viability & feasibility of these works;
To prepare detailed design and tender documents and provide the construction administration services during commencement of this project;
To assist the Employer in the evaluation of tenders received and the selection of contractors to execute the works;
To ensure that the project is implemented in accordance with the conditions of the Agreement. 
To ensure that the cost of construction contract is controlled without exceeding the allocated budget;
To ensure that the Employer is benefiting of the experience of the Consultant in design and construction administration who are eligible to the works under the project;
To assist the CM in establishing a general maintenance program for the project and provide the data to the Employer with necessary details and data about the buildings to facilitate future maintenance works;
To provide the CM with frequent technical and financial reports (daily, weekly, final, etc.) regarding the progress of the works and the conditions of site, investigate the obstacles and recommend practical remedies.
To strengthen the contractual and legal relations among the CM, the Consultant and the Contractors;
To strengthen the principal of the shared and cross legal and contractual obligations and responsibilities between the Consultant and the Contractors for the works executed;
 To ensure that the coordination among and with other parties involved is carried out according to the TOR and the contract conditions of each individual party for the benefit of the project. 
Article 3.  The Employer
s Rights and Responsibilities
Contact Person.  A KOICA staff (or  CM) shall be assigned as a contact person who will be the Employer
s representative in the administration of the contract.  If so, the Consultant shall report to the KOICA staff (or CM).
Employer Review.  The Employer shall have the right to review and approve the Consultant submittal of the respective phases of design and consulting services for conformance with the provision of the contract and to require a written response to all questions raised regarding such services, while CM shall provide his technical advice for the related Employer's review and approval.  
Interpretation.  The Employer shall have the authority to determine questions of fact that arise in relation to the interpretation of the Consultant performance hereunder.
Data, Services and Facilities Provided by the Employer.  The Employer may upon its convenience, make the following documents and services available to the Consultant (the provision of these services is not mandatory): 
Study reports, including appendix and any other available relevant information, which are necessary for the proper and timely execution of the detailed design and construction administration during the construction period.
Assist the Consultant in obtaining formal consent from outside authorities or persons having rights or power in connection with the works or the site thereof.
Assist in obtaining ministerial orders, sanctions, licenses and permits in connections with the works.
Furnish data, documentation available and may give assistance as shall reasonably be required by the Consultant in discharging his duties.
Article 4.  Consultant Responsibilities
 Project Manager: The Consultant shall designate a project manager to whom the Employer will address all questions and concerns about the Consultant contract and the Consultant performance of its duties including Design Services as well as Author
s Supervision Services.
Consultant Personnel:  The Consultant shall appoint qualified technical and administrative engineer who have the capability for each specialized activities to design, manage and supervise the implementation of the project according to the conditions of the Agreement.
The Consultant shall provide the Employer for his approval through the CM, with a detailed list of the personnel and their CVs and certificates.
Laws and Regulations.  If required in the Construction Contract Documents all applicable laws and the rules and regulations of all authorities having jurisdiction over the design of the project shall apply to the Consultant contract throughout, and they will be deemed to be included in the Agreement the same as though written therein in full.
Project Codes, Standards and Regulations. If required in the Construction Contract Documents, the Consultant shall prepare the bidding documents in accordance with all applicable codes, standards and regulations.
s Supervision. The Consultant shall perform the required activities as an  Author
s supervisor in accordance with the Agreement, local laws, and the construction contract.
Legal Responsibilities.  Notwithstanding any provision herein, the Consultant shall perform all of its services in conformity with the standards of reasonable care and skill of the profession. The Consultant shall be responsible for the performance of persons retained by the Consultant and states that its consultants, sub-consultant
s agents and employees shall possess the experience, knowledge and character to properly perform their duties.
Contractor Performance Evaluation.  The Consultant will, at the completion of the construction, participate in the evaluation of the contractor
s performance.  The Consultant may also prepare interim evaluations as necessary and upon the request of the Employer.
Addenda and Variation Orders.  Upon notice or discovery, the Consultant shall perform necessary professional services including issuance of addenda to the bidding documents and variation orders to the Construction Contract Documents, to correct or revise errors, omissions, or ambiguities.
Article 5.  Description of Works
The assignment consists of the services for the Design and Author
s Supervision of the project mentioned in attachments 2. Scope of the Services
All deliverables under this contract must be submitted in English and local language. Bilingual format (English and local language) may be used if needed.
Local language under this contract means Russian.
Article 6.  The Consultant
s Submission based on Design phases
Design Implementation Plan: 
The selected contract party shall submit Three (3) copies of the report 
Design Implementation Plan
 at least 7 days before the signature of contract. This report should include the following items
Design head person
s resume including experiences, his scope of work and license (or certificate)
Participated architects and engineers
 (architecture, interior, civil, landscape, structural, mechanical, electrical, communication, fire fighting, fire protection etc.) resume including experiences, his scope of work and license (or certificate)
Design organization chart and job assignment
Design schedule indicating the anticipated submission dates for deliverables, including each phase of drawings, design calculation reports, priced and unpriced BOQs, specifications, perspectives, etc.
Sub-consultant
s participation plan
Participant
s security memorandum: Please refer to Attachment 1: Security Memorandum
Contract amount
s detailed breakdown (priced BoQ)
Design Implementation Meeting: A design implementation meeting will be scheduled by the Employer, generally within (7) calendar days of selection of the Consultant.  The meeting shall be attended by all personnel of the Consultant; and its sub-consultants and Employer.  The consultant shall give a presentation of 
Design Implementation Plan
 and to discuss project scope, design requirements and project schedule.
Design Phase
The Consultant shall submit the submittal delivery based on the following each design phase which consists in 1) schematic design phase, 2) design development phase, 3) construction documents 
   Preliminary Survey & Alternative options
The Consultant shall provide preliminary survey result & layout options design report that include 
Preliminary survey result that should include legal constraints, infra-structure, current site condition(geographical & topographical), and design requirement that may affect the upcoming building design at the basis of [Section 6] Reference Material & Annex provided by the Employer during the bidding.
Alternative layout options ( Not less than 3 alternative options)
Design specification of each option which should include the site layout plan, structural enforcement plan(if required), floor plans, and construction work scope(to distinguish between KOICA
s undertakings & recipient country
s undertakings) drawn by single line.
Comparative analysis among the alternative options and designer
s suggestion
 Revised design timeline
The Consultant shall give a presentation of the above mentioned drawings and report to the Employer. The consultant shall modify and improve them based on the Employer
s requirement.
The Consultant shall not proceed beyond alternative option phase until getting approval of the Employer
Schematic Design (SD) Phase
The Consultant shall provide Schematic design report that include 
Design Concept and description 
Design Document including Drawings, Design Calculation Report, Priced BOQ and Unpriced BOQ, Specification 
Design Organization Chart etc. Characteristics of Site layout, Floor plan, Elevation, Section
Revised Design Schedule,
Structural Design Report 
Mechanical Design Report: Mechanical System Plan, System Diagram
Electrical Design Report: Electrical Plan which are requested by the Employer
The Consultant shall give a presentation of the above mentioned drawings and report to the Employer. The consultant shall modify and improve them based on the Employer
s requirement.
The Consultant shall not proceed beyond Schematic Design phase until getting approval of the Employer.
   Design Development (DD) Phase
Design Development  Drawings: Based on the above approved schematic design drawings and report, The Consultant shall provide the design development drawings for the Employer
s review and approval. The design development drawings should refer to 
6.3.3 Design Drawings Submission List for Design Development Phase and Construction Document Phase
G. Submission documents list, format and quantity
Design Development Report: The Consultant shall provide design development report that include bellows;
Revised Design Schedule, 
Local Building Code Analysis
Preliminary Calculation Report: 
The Consultant shall provide Preliminary Calculation Report if it is necessary for mechanical and electrical load
Preliminary priced Bill of Quantity: The Consultant shall provide Preliminary priced BOQ for the Construction and technical Specifications 
Government Permits Drawings and documents and Permits performance: The Consultant shall obtain government permits for the Construction
The Consultant shall not proceed beyond Design Development design phase until provided with an approval of the Employer.
Consultant shall give a presentation of the above mentioned drawings and report to the Employer. The consultant shall modify and improve them based on the Employer
s comments and requirement.
6.3.4         Construction Documents (CD) Phase
Construction Document Drawings: Based on the above approved design development drawings and report, The Consultant shall provide the construction documents drawings for the Employer
s approval. The construction documents drawings should refer to 
6.4.5 Design Drawings Submission List for Design Development Phase and Construction Document Phase
K. Submission documents list, format and quantity
Construction Documents Report: The Consultant shall provide construction document report that include comparison between DD & CD.
Calculation Report: The Consultant shall provide Calculation Report 
Quantity Calculation Sheet: The Consultant shall provide Quantity Calculation Sheet 
Priced Bill of Quantity: The Consultant shall provide Priced Bill of Quantity. All items should be breakdown and fill in unit rate and cost column.
Unpriced Bill of Quantity: The Consultant shall provide Unpriced Bill of Quantity. All items should be breakdown and Unit rate and cost column should be blank for bidding
Specifications: The Consultant shall prepare General Specification and  Particular specification for the construction of project.
Construction Schedule: The Consultant shall provide Construction Schedule
Other Employer
s Requirement: The Consultant shall provide other Employer
s Requirement
Tender Bidding Drawings & Documents: The Consultant shall prepare tender drawings and other related documents and those documents to be required for bidding of selection for the Contractor of this Project
Submission documents list, format and quantity for CD Phase. Please refer to attachment 2.
The Presentation to the Employer: The Consultant shall give a presentation of the above mentioned drawings and report to the Employer. The consultant shall modify and improve them based on the Employer
s requirement.
The Consultant shall not proceed beyond Detailed Design phase until provided with an approval of the Employer.
Permits Drawings & Documents 
The Consultant shall prepare, modify and improve engineering drawings and other documents as it may be required for obtaining construction licenses or permits from related state authorities. The Consultant shall pay all fees required for the permit applications, follow up and obtain the license(permit) on behalf of the Employer before submitting the Tender Documents. 
Tender Bidding Drawings & Documents 
The Consultant shall prepare tender drawings and other related documents which will be required for the bidding of selection of the Contractor 
Article 7.   Employer
s Review of Design
The Employer will schedule design review submittals and/or review meetings required by the Manual.  These reviews provide Employer the opportunity to review contract documents and design concepts and make recommendations.  The review of these documents by the Employer does not constitute a complete and exhaustive review.  Employer reviews the documents for general compliance with the program objectives, design standards and contract requirements. The Employer
s acceptance of these documents does not relieve the Consultant of any of its legal and technical responsibilities.
Review Process
The Consultant shall submit documents for review as required hereinafter.
After receipt of the review documents from the Consultant, the Employer will establish a review meeting date usually within 14 calendar days after receipt of documents.
The review process may include the evaluation of the documents to determine that the design provides the functions required, the compliance of the documents with the Employer
s requirements and that the project is within budget.
All key design staff and the Consultant shall attend the review meeting(s).
Review comments prepared by the Employer will be provided to the Consultant at or prior to the review meetings.  When a meeting is not required, comments will be transmitted to the Consultant by the Employer representative.
The Employer will, in writing or at the review meeting, provide notice of the acceptance of the review documents or issue instructions regarding required rework.  If the required corrections are minor, Employer may conditionally accept and authorize the Consultant to proceed to the next review phase.
Following the reviews, the Consultant shall prepare meeting minutes indicating issues discussed/ resolved and respond to the Employer in writing to all review comments and questions within 7 calendar days.
Article 8.  Reporting of Requirements for the Design phases  
In addition to all reports mentioned above and hereinafter, the Consultant shall submit the following reports and information to the Employer:
A monthly progress reports giving a general statement on the progress achieved, summaries of work performed by each member of the Consultant team and details of problems encountered or expected to be encountered in the execution of the work. Progress reports are to include details of engineering. Two (2) copies of the report are required.
The final report at the completion of the design stage is to include:
The comprehensive report which was performed by the Consultant.
Recommendations regarding future similar works for the Employer.
Article 9.  Delivery schedule for the Design works  
Design Delivery Schedule: The Consultant shall complete the design works and deliver all drawings and documents based on 
Article 6 The Consultant
s Submission based on Design Phase
 according to the following:
 New Construction work design: within 9 months from the date of effective date of its contract.
The Consultant should establish the delivery schedule for the new construction design for The Employer
s review and approval prior to his/her work commencement. 
The Consultant shall specify the below items in his/her delivery schedule:
the date of the effectiveness of the Consultant contract
the day when the Consultant submits Schematic Design Drawing & Document to the Employer according to the Clause 6.3.1.
the day when the Employer hands over written comments on SD to the consultant. 
the day when the Consultant resubmits revised SD Drawing & Documents to the Employer and get approval. 
 the day when the Consultant submits Design Developments Drawing & Document to the Employer according to the Clause 6.3.2.
the day when the Employer hands over written comments on DD to the consultant.
the day when the Consultant resubmits revised DD Drawing & Documents to the Employer and get approval. 
The day when the state authority
s permit is secured. 
the day when the Consultant submits Construction Document Drawing & Document according to the Clause 6.3.3
the day when the Employer reply written comments on the Construction Document Drawing & Documents to the consultant
the day when the Consultant resubmits revised CD Drawing & Documents to the Employer and get approval. 
the day when the Consultant submit Final Construction Document Drawing & Documents according to the Clause 6.3.4 and the Clause 6.3.5.
the day when Bid document submission for the Employer
s review .& approval.
The Consultant should provide the Employer sufficient time(more than 14days at the minimum) to review and approval.
Article 10. Bid document preparation and bidding support
10.1 Submission of Bid Documents
The Consultant shall prepare all required addenda.
All addenda shall be sequentially numbered and dated.
All addenda, including revised drawings and sections, must be approved by the Employer prior to the distribution to the Bidders. The Consultant shall allow sufficient time for the Employer review and approval.
The drawings shall have the changes clearly noted and identified.  Make notation in the revision column of the drawing indicating the change letter, the date of the change, and a brief description of the change.
All changes shall be incorporated into the original drawings.  
The Consultant shall provide the Employer with various copies of the drawings and other tender documents which reflect all addenda issued.  These copies shall be sealed, signed, dated and marked with 
FOR CONSTRUCTION
. The cost of these copies shall be included in the prices of the Consultant.
10.2 Review and Analysis on the Bidder
s document and the Contractor
The Consultant shall provide assistance to the Employer to identify the apparent successful bidders.
The Consultant shall review all unit prices submitted by the Contractor (successful bidder) and provide written review comments and analysis to the Employer.
Contract price shall remain unchanged despite extension of the bidding support period
Article 11.  Consultant
s Personnel for the Design Stage 
11.1 The following categories of personnel are to be assigned for the design works by the Consultant. The descriptions given below are for reimbursable staff.  No other personnel will be reimbursed unless the Consultant wish to propose other specialists in which case they must be listed and included in the proposal and approved by the Employer.  CVs must be submitted for the types of staff that the Consultant might decide to use on this project as follows:
Project Manager (Architect): registered professional architect with more than 15 years post graduate experience.
The expected PM and construction supervisor's PT and interview will be scheduled before selecting the successful bidder and approved by the Employer
Architect: registered professional architect with more than 10 years post graduate experience.
Structural engineer: registered professional structural engineer with more than 7 years post graduate experience.
Civil engineer: registered professional civil engineer with more than 7 years post graduate experience.
Electrical engineer: registered professional electrical engineer with more than 7 years post graduate experience.
Mechanical engineer: registered professional mechanical engineer with more than 7 years post graduate experience.
Quantity Surveyor: a qualified quantity surveyor with more than 5 years of professional experience. 
11.2 Approval of Employer.  CVs for all the above mentioned personnel shall be submitted to the CM for Employer's approval.
11.3 Devotion.  All the above listed personnel shall be solely devoted for the project and the CM can freely conduct inspection regarding their devotion.
 Article 12. Consultant
s Personnel for the Author
s Supervision Stage 
12.1 The following categories of personnel are to be assigned for the Supervision works by the Consultant as appropriate. The descriptions given below are for reimbursable staff. No other personnel will be reimbursed unless the Consultant wish to propose other specialists in which case they must be listed and included in the proposal and approved by the CM. CVs must be submitted for the types of staff that the Consultant might decide to use on this project as follows:
Chief Engineer (or Chief Architect): registered professional Civil Engineer or an Architectural Engineer, or Architect who should has an effective certificate with more than 10 years of experience as an author
s supervisor that will work on 3 days a week on the site, particularly related with solutions on design problems and hidden works on site. 
Engineers on building
s technical systems(e.g. electricity, water sanitation & sewerage, heating & ventilation, etc.): registered professional  engineer who should has an effective certificate with more than 7 years post graduate experience that will at least be available 1 day a week on the site. 
Article 13. Instruction for Author
s Supervision Services
13.1 Introduction
Objectives
To ensure that the product delivered conforms to the highest engineering standards.
To ensure that the product delivered meet the client
s satisfaction. 
To ensure that in the process of delivering the product, the environmental, safety and engineering standard meet the requirements set by the relevant local codes and regulations of practices. 
s Supervision Service
s supervision must be carried out in accordance with SNiP KR 11-02-00 
Regulations on author supervision of design organizations over the construction of facilities, buildings and structures
 and other currently  effective regulatory documents of the Kyrgyz Republic on author supervision.
The Contract for the Author
s supervision service becomes effective in relation to the contract effectuation of the Design service.
The Author supervision service shall start when the construction starts which is the preparation period to select the contractor.
The Author supervision service extends up to the finally approved for the occupation of buildings by the local state authorities after the completion of construction works.
Contract price shall remain unchanged despite extension of the author
s supervision period
Scope of Work
Administrative Control (if required)
Clarification of Design drawings & Provision of technical solution with document( (shop drawings, etc.)
Provision of design document for any design change(or design modification) 
s supervision related documentation
Inspection and preparation of Report for the Project progress(weekly, monthly) & particular event(if any)
Review and Support preparation of the As-built drawings & construction document that will be submitted by the construction contractor
Preparation of final report
Reports and schedule
This table includes the bidding support period for reference.
Description
Construction
Progress
Report for commencement of the project
All submittals shall include one original copy and one copy of pdf format at the minimum
USB shall include all submitted documents and drawings both in English and Local language. Also it includes Font file for digital drawing file. 
All submittal has one (1) or two (2) original copy. And only original shall be stamped 
original
 on every pages and the rest copy shall be stamped as 
 on cover page. 
The Supervisor should be familiarized with the relevant parts of the Specifications and D
}n^N^>N>N^N^N
vfvfvR>vfvfv
|||h|h|X
}nZKZK7K
zzgS@S@S
mWAWAWAWA
M\>\M>\\>\
yyyccccRcccc
rawings.
Ascertain the line of command. 
Should not exceed its powers 
Should not order any works that will delay the Contractor or result in an increase in the cost of the works WITHOUT THE PRIOR APPROVAL OF KOICA (CM)
Ensure that the Contractor adopts safety measures to prevent site accidents 
When in doubt, ask the professional CM assigned by KOICA 
[Annex 1] Sample of Technical Proposal
[Annex 2] Guidance for Technical Proposal
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
D.G. BUILDINGS AND PROJECTS
SECTION 6. TERMS OF REFERENCE
Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA)
mgmgccmgm
[Content_Types].xml
_rels/.rels
theme/theme/themeManager.xml
theme/theme/theme1.xml
}O3o?_w2
theme/theme/_rels/themeManager.xml.rels
K(M&$R(.1
[Content_Types].xmlPK
_rels/.relsPK
theme/theme/themeManager.xmlPK
theme/theme/theme1.xmlPK
theme/theme/_rels/themeManager.xml.relsPK
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?>
<a:clrMap xmlns:a="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/drawingml/2006/main" bg1="lt1" tx1="dk1" bg2="lt2" tx2="dk2" accent1="accent1" accent2="accent2" accent3="accent3" accent4="accent4" accent5="accent5" accent6="accent6" hlink="hlink" folHlink="folHlink"/>
urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags	
PlaceType
urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags	
PlaceName
urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags
TOR-section 6(2008.2.5)
Ulan Jylkybaev
Microsoft Office Word
Unknown Organization
TOR-section 6(2008.2.5)
TOR-section 6(2008.2.5)
TOR-section 6(2008.2.5)
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><b:Sources SelectedStyle="\APA.XSL" StyleName="APA" xmlns:b="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/officeDocument/2006/bibliography" xmlns="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/officeDocument/2006/bibliography"></b:Sources>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<ds:datastoreItem ds:itemID="{67A83F45-8203-4B56-B783-B3CBF656629B}" xmlns:ds="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/officeDocument/2006/customXml"><ds:schemaRefs><ds:schemaRef ds:uri="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/officeDocument/2006/bibliography"/></ds:schemaRefs></ds:datastoreItem>
 Microsoft Word 97-2003
MSWordDoc
Word.Document.8
